README.md, before:

# Spellchecker CLI

A command-line tool for spellchecking files, built on top of [`retext`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext) and [`remark`](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tbroadley/spellchecker-cli.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tbroadley/spellchecker-cli)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/spellchecker-cli.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/spellchecker-cli)

## Use Case

You can help contributors to your open-source software project catch spelling mistakes in documentation by running Spellchecker CLI as a pre-commit or pre-push Git hook or as part of your continuous integration process.

## Features

- Run on any plain text file, with special handling for Markdown syntax
- Check for spelling mistakes, repeated words, and/or correct usage of "a" and "and"
- Check spelling using an American, British, Canadian, Australian, or South African English dictionary
- Specify a custom dictionary of project-specific terms to be combined with the dictionary for the specified language
- Generate the custom dictionary automatically based on misspellings found in the checked files

## Installation

If you want to use Spellchecker CLI as a command-line tool on your own computer, you can install it globally:

```
$ npm install --global spellchecker-cli
```

If you want to run Spellchecker CLI in a Git hook or in a CI environment, it's better to add it as a development dependency of your application:

```
$ npm install --save-dev spellchecker-cli
```

## Usage

Run Spellchecker CLI using the command `spellchecker`. This command takes the following options:

```
-f, --files <file|glob> <file|glob>...   A list of files or globs to spellcheck.
-l, --language <language>                The language of the files. The default language is en-US. The following
                                         languages are supported: en-AU, en-CA, en-GB, en-US, en-ZA.
-d, --dictionary <file>                  A file to use as a personal dictionary.
--generate-dictionary                    Write a personal dictionary that contains all found misspellings to
                                         dictionary.txt.
-i, --ignore <regex> <regex>...          Spelling mistakes that match any of these regexes will be ignored.
-p, --plugins <name> <name>...           A list of retext plugins to use. The default is "spell indefinite-article
                                         repeated-words syntax-mentions syntax-urls". The following plugins are
                                         supported: spell, indefinite-article, repeated-words, syntax-mentions,
                                         syntax-urls.
-q, --quiet                              Do not output anything for files that contain no spelling mistakes.
-h, --help                               Print this help screen.
```

If you've installed Spellchecker CLI globally, you can simply run `spellchecker` to invoke the tool. If you used the `--save-dev` flag, run `./node_modules/.bin/spellchecker` from the root directory of your project (or just `spellchecker` inside an NPM script).

### Globs

Spellchecker CLI uses [`globby`](https://github.com/sindresorhus/globby), which is based on [`glob`](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob), to parse globs. The tool passes the provided list of globs directly to `globby`. This means that you can, for instance, use `!` to negate a glob:

```
$ spellchecker --files '**/*.md' '!test/**/*.md' 'test/README.md'
```

See [the `node-glob` documentation](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob#glob-primer) for a full description of glob syntax.

### Plugins

The following `retext` plugins are supported:

- [`retext-spell`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-spell): check spelling
- [`retext-indefinite-article`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-indefinite-article): check that "a" and "an" are used correctly
- [`retext-repeated-words`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-repeated-words): check `for for` repeated words
- [`retext-syntax-mentions`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-syntax-mentions): ignore GitHub mentions (_e.g._ @tbroadley) when spellchecking
- [`retext-syntax-urls`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-syntax-urls): ignore URL-like values (_e.g._ `README.md`, `https://example.com`) when spellchecking

When using the `--plugins` command-line option, make sure to remove `retext-` from the beginning of the plugin name. For example, to use only `retext-spell` and `retext-indefinite-article`, run:

```
$ spellchecker --files <glob> --plugins spell indefinite-article
```

### Personal dictionary

The personal dictionary file should be in [`nspell` personal dictionary format](https://github.com/wooorm/nspell#personal-dictionary-documents).

### Generating a personal dictionary

This option is useful for adding Spellchecker CLI to an existing open-source software project with a lot of documentation. Instead of fixing every spelling mistake in one pull request, contributors can gradually remove misspellings from the generated dictionary. It's also helpful to be able to generate a personal dictionary then remove the actual misspellings from the dictionary, leaving behind only project-specific terms.

### Ignore regexes

You could use this feature to ignore spelling mistakes with a common form but too many possible instances to be included in a personal dictionary. For instance, you could use the regular expression `[0-9a-f]{7}` to match Git short SHAs.

Each regex will be wrapped with `^` and `$` before mistakes are tested against it. For example, suppose you invoke Spellchecker CLI as follows:

```
spellchecker --files README.md --ignore "ize"
```

In this case, only the literal word "ize" will be ignored, not words that contain it, like "optimize". To match optimize, you could use the regular expression `[A-Za-z]+ize`.

## Markdown

Spellchecker CLI performs some preprocessing on Markdown files (_i.e._ files with the extension `.md` or `.markdown`, ignoring capitalization):

- Ignores `inline code` and tables
- Transforms [Gemoji](https://github.com/wooorm/gemoji) into Unicode emoji, so that emoji names like `:octocat:` aren't spellchecked

## Development

Run `npm install` to install dependencies. Then, run `node index.js` to run Spellcheck CLI. You can also run `npm run spellchecker` to run Spellcheck CLI against its own documentation, `npm run lint` to lint the JavaScript source files, and `npm run test` to run the test suite.

Commit message:

Add command-line option to disable suggestions

README.md, after:

# Spellchecker CLI

A command-line tool for spellchecking files, built on top of [`retext`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext) and [`remark`](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tbroadley/spellchecker-cli.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tbroadley/spellchecker-cli)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/spellchecker-cli.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/spellchecker-cli)

## Use Case

You can help contributors to your open-source software project catch spelling mistakes in documentation by running Spellchecker CLI as a pre-commit or pre-push Git hook or as part of your continuous integration process.

## Features

- Run on any plain text file, with special handling for Markdown syntax
- Check for spelling mistakes, repeated words, and/or correct usage of "a" and "and"
- Check spelling using an American, British, Canadian, Australian, or South African English dictionary
- Specify a custom dictionary of project-specific terms to be combined with the dictionary for the specified language
- Generate the custom dictionary automatically based on misspellings found in the checked files

## Installation

If you want to use Spellchecker CLI as a command-line tool on your own computer, you can install it globally:

```
$ npm install --global spellchecker-cli
```

If you want to run Spellchecker CLI in a Git hook or in a CI environment, it's better to add it as a development dependency of your application:

```
$ npm install --save-dev spellchecker-cli
```

## Usage

Run Spellchecker CLI using the command `spellchecker`. This command takes the following options:

```
-f, --files <file|glob> <file|glob>...   A list of files or globs to spellcheck.
-l, --language <language>                The language of the files. The default language is en-US. The following
                                         languages are supported: en-AU, en-CA, en-GB, en-US, en-ZA.
-d, --dictionary <file>                  A file to use as a personal dictionary.
--generate-dictionary                    Write a personal dictionary that contains all found misspellings to
                                         dictionary.txt.
-i, --ignore <regex> <regex>...          Spelling mistakes that match any of these regexes will be ignored.
-p, --plugins <name> <name>...           A list of retext plugins to use. The default is "spell indefinite-article
                                         repeated-words syntax-mentions syntax-urls". The following plugins are
                                         supported: spell, indefinite-article, repeated-words, syntax-mentions,
                                         syntax-urls.
--no-suggestions                         Do not print suggested replacements for misspelled words. This option will
                                         improve Spellchecker's runtime when many errors are detected.
-q, --quiet                              Do not output anything for files that contain no spelling mistakes.
-h, --help                               Print this help screen.
```

If you've installed Spellchecker CLI globally, you can simply run `spellchecker` to invoke the tool. If you used the `--save-dev` flag, run `./node_modules/.bin/spellchecker` from the root directory of your project (or just `spellchecker` inside an NPM script).

### Globs

Spellchecker CLI uses [`globby`](https://github.com/sindresorhus/globby), which is based on [`glob`](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob), to parse globs. The tool passes the provided list of globs directly to `globby`. This means that you can, for instance, use `!` to negate a glob:

```
$ spellchecker --files '**/*.md' '!test/**/*.md' 'test/README.md'
```

See [the `node-glob` documentation](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob#glob-primer) for a full description of glob syntax.

### Plugins

The following `retext` plugins are supported:

- [`retext-spell`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-spell): check spelling
- [`retext-indefinite-article`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-indefinite-article): check that "a" and "an" are used correctly
- [`retext-repeated-words`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-repeated-words): check `for for` repeated words
- [`retext-syntax-mentions`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-syntax-mentions): ignore GitHub mentions (_e.g._ @tbroadley) when spellchecking
- [`retext-syntax-urls`](https://github.com/retextjs/retext-syntax-urls): ignore URL-like values (_e.g._ `README.md`, `https://example.com`) when spellchecking

When using the `--plugins` command-line option, make sure to remove `retext-` from the beginning of the plugin name. For example, to use only `retext-spell` and `retext-indefinite-article`, run:

```
$ spellchecker --files <glob> --plugins spell indefinite-article
```

### Personal dictionary

The personal dictionary file should be in [`nspell` personal dictionary format](https://github.com/wooorm/nspell#personal-dictionary-documents).

### Generating a personal dictionary

This option is useful for adding Spellchecker CLI to an existing open-source software project with a lot of documentation. Instead of fixing every spelling mistake in one pull request, contributors can gradually remove misspellings from the generated dictionary. It's also helpful to be able to generate a personal dictionary then remove the actual misspellings from the dictionary, leaving behind only project-specific terms.

### Ignore regexes

You could use this feature to ignore spelling mistakes with a common form but too many possible instances to be included in a personal dictionary. For instance, you could use the regular expression `[0-9a-f]{7}` to match Git short SHAs.

Each regex will be wrapped with `^` and `$` before mistakes are tested against it. For example, suppose you invoke Spellchecker CLI as follows:

```
spellchecker --files README.md --ignore "ize"
```

In this case, only the literal word "ize" will be ignored, not words that contain it, like "optimize". To match optimize, you could use the regular expression `[A-Za-z]+ize`.

## Markdown

Spellchecker CLI performs some preprocessing on Markdown files (_i.e._ files with the extension `.md` or `.markdown`, ignoring capitalization):

- Ignores `inline code` and tables
- Transforms [Gemoji](https://github.com/wooorm/gemoji) into Unicode emoji, so that emoji names like `:octocat:` aren't spellchecked

## Development

Run `npm install` to install dependencies. Then, run `node index.js` to run Spellcheck CLI. You can also run `npm run spellchecker` to run Spellcheck CLI against its own documentation, `npm run lint` to lint the JavaScript source files, and `npm run test` to run the test suite.
